---
tags: meeting
description: rcm-pmu connect and update
---

:::info
**Live notes on hackmd: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/rkArqZtM6**

**Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---

```
# Meeting 2023-10-31
## Attendees
## Apologies
## Notes
```
==Actions are highlighted yellow==

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-10-27


## Attendees
* Cass
* Harry

## Apologies
> *Please add your name below if you are not able to attend the meeting.*
* Lelle


## Notes
* PMU team is:
    * Mariya Iqbal (manages Lelle directly)
    * Monichia vachiel du bois (financce, 100% end November)
    * Maya B (acorss other programmes) - Senior PMU
* [Workstream leads in the mailing list] ==get a link to this sheet==

### E&S RCM
* Cass should be moving to E&S fulltime in early 2024
* E&S is < 6 months old. 
    * Get comfortable with uncertaintly
    * E&S was created out of ASG. 
    * We don't have a science and innovation director. Scott is interim.
    * Turing has never set up a GC before. 
        * What dies it look like?
        * How does it work with the other GCs?
        * £4 million from EPSRC to spend by 31st March - need to sprint!
* E&S recruiting for a RAM too. JD in dev
* Funding after March uncertain
    * Not yet clear if there will be a push for  funding before March.
    * WS1 should be tapering out March/April next year - resources for delivery are limited 
* Governance structure in dev
* Monthly E&S management meetings starting next month
    * Q: who is at these meetings?
        * 
        [E&S GC handbook - draft](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/rid/EZ05gyBag6lCp7E88IQmwrMBW02gfKJ7eylcHmorli7u2Q?e=auwBEr)
* Each invidiaul WS will have it's own meeting
    * Each project manager will have a reporting menchanism to feedback to Scott
* [EPSRC Proposal](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/rid/Efm2tmcbSyBKg5NFQb4_8TgBWJR2_6gFn27gNPJl8hC11Q?e=nldxM0)
    * WS 1.1-3 needs to be delivered by 1st March
        * This WS/period is a sepcfic ring-fenced sprint
    * WS2.4 is to fund IMFe work going forwards
        * Bring together people who were on IMFe into this GC. 
        * Harry will invite me to monthly meeting
* ==Check that the recruitment process for me is all complete==


### Ways of working
* DISC profile via professional development team
    * Harry and Mariya have both done these
    * PDU can build suggesitons for how two different people can best work together based on on DICS profiles. 
* PMU sharepoint is restructed as it contains sensetive information e.g. contracts. 
* [E&S Handbook](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/rid/Efm2tmcbSyBKg5NFQb4_8TgBWJR2_6gFn27gNPJl8hC11Q?e=nldxM0) ==review this==
    * Lots of very useful information in there! Would be great to publish/share if we can.
    * Focus of monthly managmenet meetings is to make sure that the different WS are speaking together and sharing - WSs should not be siloed (eg as activities at Cambridge, Rothemstead, etc)
        * There is a big space and desire here for the RCM to be involved.
        * Harry has worked closely with Emma K and Vicky, so has a good understanding of the RCM role in internal cohesion
* Current and next RMC activity
    * Slack #esgrandchallenge
        * This channel came from #ds4s
        * A bit of slack mess, e.g. #es-grand-challenge-climbio

    * Mess in MS Teams / sharepoint
        * MS Planner board in the E&S GC Operational Delivery sharepoint
    * Maya and Harry meeting with Scott next week to talk this through, inc TIG
        * TIGs are seperate from Turing Programmes. TIGs are meant to be self sustaining. E&S TIG is written into the proposal (e.g. increase the numbers). 
            * Need to understand how the two relate and how it this can be best resourced across the teams
    * Knowledge shares
        * Monthly seminar series
        * People who are funded by the GC (partners) and internal (on the mailling list)
        * This is not for the TIG, it is a GC collaborative working space to develop and share internally
            * Internal team cohesion
        * Starting next week. 
        * Emma has run before, and Vicky
            * one speaker so far for the one next week. Monthly - ==need more speakers==
        * ==Need more engagement from our speakers, they need to understand the value add==
* Project meetings need more minutes/actions/governance
    * Stuff to go in the teams sharepoint for other people to model
        * Monica's F&E Team have a strong process driven structure. She will be bringing that into the team
        * Harry has strong structures, but hasn't had capacity and time to do governance. 
* External Advirosy Board 
    * Turning want GCs to have one. Some question marks over development of Turing policy on this. Setting up the EAB will be moved forward by PMU
* Theory of Change
    * Mafalda of TOC has been seconded into the E&S team
    * [E&S TOC is in dev]() ==this ppt is in email from Harry - should be on sharepoint==
        * Mafalda has reviewed EPSRC submission and has started to put impact metrics. Reviewing with Scott and Maya to put KPIs into each workstream.
        * WS developing shortterm goals for this year and to set KPIs for subsequent years. 
        * Future proposals are being developed in the TOC meetings, so need to make sure Cass and Alden are in this space
* Infrastrucutre Mission
    * Urban Analytics and DCE are not yet mapped into the GC, making some uncertainty and requiring internal navigation.
* Comms
    * [Comms plan developed](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/CE/Strategy/GC%20launch/3rd%20DRAFT_Environment%20and%20Sustainability%20Grand%20Challenge%20Launch.docx?d=wc5121a78ca00446cab866fbd0cfc002e&csf=1&web=1&e=CP58D5)
    * Website set up for GC, but not yet live
    * New head of comms has met with Scott. 
    * ==Read the comms plan and identify areas RCM/RAM should be involved in and let Scott know==
* Budget
    * Need to develop events plan and other on what we can deliver to spend on EPSRC
        * Lose calculations on what can be put to comms and engagement. 
        * Finance manager now in post to developing more complete costings
            * £20,000 for WS1 events and engagement
            * Also some going to travel
* Tool use
    * Harry doesn't llike github for project management
    * Pushing for Monday.com to be rolled out across GC
    * Important to make sure there is managed across the tools.
    * Turing-Roche use excel for minuting
        * useful action trtacker etc
        * Would like to roll out, hosted on E&S GC sharepoint.
        * ==get a copy from Vicky==
* Calendars
    * Cass' preference for Harry to drop in meeting invites 
    * Meeting 31st October WS2.2 (DT) will be a useful one to attend this week share out
        * ==TRIC RAM should be on that== - invited Sophie
    * Weekly E&S one will be set up
    * Comms meeting invite coming
        * Mondy 6th Nov 16:30 - ==see invite attachments== - received
    * 2 all-hands touchpints / month 
        * week 1 = knowledge share
        * week 3 Management meeting
    * Health programme meeting on how to collaborate across GCs 15th November
        * might be useful to get another Health person on that ==Add Emma?== - Emma Suggested Health PMU Ali Marsh - forwarded suggestion to Harry
* WS 2.1 Deep Sensor
    * Tom leaving next month.
    * Senior PDRA will be hired to replace Tom (external hire should be in post by late Feb/March)
    * Kalle is taking over from Tom as interim lead on Deep Sensor
        * Why is a RAM from the TRIC taking over project management of Deep Sensor.
        * Join slack #deepsensor
        * ==Check in with Kalle about this== - Kalle to reach out to Harry
* WS1
    * The meetings/discussions will be happening, need to create the structure for that to feed into
        * ==Unpack this further==

