---
tags: meeting
description: ws1
---

:::info
**Live notes on hackmd**: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/H1t38hiQ6/edit
**Events timeline**: https://padlet.com/cgouldvanpraag/e-s-gc-events-ahu1lsdgwkfdqc3y
**Events reporting**: link TBC

**Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---

```
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting yyyy-mm-dd
## Attendees
## Apologies
## Notes
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
```
==Actions are highlighted yellow==


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting 2023-11-28 (SIG check in)

## Attendees
Alden
Patty

## Notes
- Once new SIG governanace structure is approved and steering committee appointed (TBD but hopefully by end of 2023), interest groups will have to apply to renew under new ToR
    - SIG will require minimum 4 people in the team, at least 3 events per year
- We can have a broad group with sub-groups (Clinical AI SIG is a great example)
- At end of their 2 years we could ask biodiversity to continue under E&S (one year from now) - will be their choice but if we make the E&S SIG strong and engaged then it will be attractive to join
- We cannot reuse the IG email list - would have to create new email list with opt-in - for this reason and for keeping already engaged members without asking them to start over it's better to keep the overarching E&S group and form sub-groups that conceptualize and host events
- We can update the form and the website to make signing up for the E&S IG less onerous

# Meeting 2023-11-27

## Attendees
- Cass
- Alden
- Harry
- Bea

## Apologies
- Emily

## Notes

- ==[name=Cass]: Should we invite Katy Thompson to this meeting, given the events focus?==
    - Brinstorm with Scott on how to best use Katy's time. 

### Manchester debrief
- Who do we need to contact to follow up?
    - [Cass' Notes](https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/rkrMBjhN6)
    - People list:
        - Francesca, [Ecosystems Knowledge Network](https://ecosystemsknowledge.net/about/). Running an event in June that E&S could feed into. Stakeholders from Policy makers to farmers. ==Alden to email and cc this group==
        - Open Data Manchester. Read ==[report on their user research on NERC data and how to incorporate into our NERD data event](https://www.opendatamanchester.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/ODM_REPORT_SEPT23_FINAL_AW_VO2_INT.pdf)==
        - For CI2024 organising: Orlando Timmerman (Cambridge); Meghna Asthana (Turing)
        - Blair Edwards (IBM). Working with NASA to develop goepsatial foundational models. ==Email to connect on [NASA-NOC conversations for AIUK](https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/BJj2nBLQT)==
            - Alden and Cass to invite to present at external facing seminar
### How does this relate to the GC?
- What is the purpose of the SIG outside of this event?
- Proposal to develop a broad network of people to hear about and engage with GC via slack and newsletter
- based on E&S TIG (who are mostly already on) slack, and bringing in biodiv
- Current E&S TIG does not fit the requirements, e.g. n events.
- The E&S TIG is not specific enough. 
- Lack of leadership clear governance
- EPSRC proposal: WS1.3: Nurturing a national community of research and best practice. Using online and offline mechanisms – from blogs/whitepapers, deep-dive discussion, community events to community-led research symposia series – to galvanise, connect and enable actors to collaborate from across the E&S ecosystem in the UK, Academic, Industry, Civil Society, Government ministries & Potential Donors. This builds on the existing Environment & Sustainability special interest group’s current membership of 400 people (including experts in researchers, engineers, policy, and sustainability).
        - This can evolve wrt KPIs
    - Emily is named in some places about KPIs etc., so we can support her to continue to engage and lead, as long as they are open to us challenging the assumptions (e.g. specificity of "interest")



### Capturing outputs
- What’s the best format for capturing these outputs? (eg Space Day, Digital Futures)

### Event interest from other WSs
- [Workstream 1 events](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/ESWS1Missionscoping/EWKL_AKT6GFEuh-6MwSVGucBe_54dLHypaIySWEcdHGTPw?e=vvaQ6c)
- Add to list of potentials:
    - (Jen) Climate projections data workshop
    - (Jen) Light pollution data hackathon
    - (Jen) Hopes & Fears Lab
    - "AI Biodiversity project team (Matt Fry) wants to discuss potential stakeholder workshop ideas with you and Alden"
    - Another from Harry - in email to Cass (Agriculture DT workshop WS2.2) - thank you!
    - Emily's fringe event
    - ML bootcamp
- Do we need to capture any of these for WS1?
    - WS1 does not exist after March
    - Don't want to create the expectation of a separation between WSs
    - We should have a list under WS1, describing how we have been involved in them :)
    - None of these would come out of our budget
    - Cass wants reporting template

#### Retreat
- Scott suggests we don't put on a retreat before the S&I director is in post.
- Re-open this discussion after AIUK

#### Comms stakeholder 
- Comms said they could run some stakeholder analysis research. 
    - ==Cass keen that this is persued.==
- We're missing an industry event
    - Katy will be developing a work plan. We will flag that industry could be a good angle.


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-11-23

## Attendees
- Alden
- Cass
- Harry

## Apologies
- none

## Notes
- Aims for Manchester
    - Capture everything (e.g. where folks do stuff)
        - Outcomes for auditing/reports (2 pager)
            - Set up a template/form (for Research Fish, or TPS reporting)
            - Impact, connections, stuff from WS1
    - Get vibes about the interest group - would people (and leadership) be happy for us to move it closer into the GC?
    - Some sort of sign-up?
        - ==Cass: Form for adding to slack and mailing list, following SHM fields==
- E&S TIG
    - Biodiversity TIG has a lot of events
    - Maybe structure TIGs around missions?
        - Find the right people to lead each
        - Stick with the TIG resourcing (e.g. funding)?
        - Is a TIG the right format? Is it an over complication/distraction?



<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-11-13

## Attendees
- Bea
- Cass
- Maya
- Alden

## Apologies
- Harry

## Notes
- Move running notes for this meeting to hackmd? Approved
- [Workstream 1 events](https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/ESWS1Missionscoping/EWKL_AKT6GFEuh-6MwSVGucBe_54dLHypaIySWEcdHGTPw?e=vvaQ6c)
    - Retreat proposed to Harry in last meeting
    - Proposed to follow ASG retreat
    - Include folks for all 4 missions?
        - All Urban Analytics, all TRIC-DT Natural Env?
            - If yes could they contribute funding
    - Maya suggests not to plan to include folks from Missions 3/4 before their reorganisation is announced formally into Transformation Programme
    - Potentially organise to include missions 1/2, then extend to include missions 3/4 if appropriate and can contribute funding

- Monthly management meeting
    - Bea will join 5 min late, observing only
    - Alden will summarise event plan and aim to capture events from other workstreams
    - Cass will present stakeholder map

- Discuss distinct remits of E&S and biodiversity monitoring IGs 
    - Consider changing name of E&S interest group to make it clear that E&S and biodiversity monitoring cover different areas but both fall under E&S GC? 
    - Invite both IGs to the Slack space – Slack space becomes general forum for discussion and announcements relating to the GC 
        - slack workspace = ai4environment
    - Alden is meeting with both TIGs this week
    - Maya: not clear that any of them would be willing to fold incase they loose their funding. ==Alden ask patty: How long have each group been running? Have they served their terms?==

- Stakeholder map
    - Want funder information for any projects Turing is a partner on, not just leading 
    - We need to correct the organisational structure
        - Look at first order conenctions intially, then correct second order
    - ==Create filters for person/org==
    - Value = do we find a gap?
        - What extra information do we gain over this just being a list?
            - Can see where the hotspots are
            - Doesn't show the unknown unknowns
            - Can we see places where there is no delivery (and they can be integrated)
            - Add people we are not engaging
    - Set the scope for what to include in these maps
    - No unified lilst we can draw from - Dynamics is incomplete.
    - Filter by workstreams then take each map into the individual workstream meetings for review


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-11-10

## Attendees
- Harry
- Alden
- Cass

## Apologies
- none

## Notes
- ==Cass - check if Bea and Emily are ok with hackmd for WS1==
- Biodiversity TIG - suggest this is folded into E&S GC
    - ==Alden to contact Scott for steer==

### Monthly management meeting
- Workstream 1 events: https://thealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/ESWS1Missionscoping/EWKL_AKT6GFEuh-6MwSVGucBe_54dLHypaIySWEcdHGTPw?e=vvaQ6c

#### [Stakeholder map](https://kumu.io/cassgvp/turing-tric-dt-stakeholder-map#untitled-map/)
- Add funders to map
- define the filters (e.g. WS)
- Take each WS map into a meeting for that WS, get them to review    - ==Ask Mafalda what metadata she would like==
- Mafalda and Chris CM rolling out reporting mechanisms
- Value:
    - know who is doing what => impact
    - de-silo

- Presentation at Management meeting need to really engage them

#### Retreat
- Model on ASG retreat
    - lots of possible venues, e.g. [Cumberland Lodge](https://www.cumberlandlodge.ac.uk/)
    - Aim to run anually (hackathon style, co-production)
- How wide should the invites be?

#### Biodiversity monitoring (2.1, 2.3)
- Matt Fry
- Would like to hold a workshop with external parnters
    - On pause since June while GC was finalised
- Connect with Matt to support/advise on delivery 
- 2.2 (Ruchi) would also like to do a workshop
- Tell folks that workshops can progress, how they can fold into WS1, and how they can used best practice community management
    - We need to track activities for WS1 reporting

- WS2.1 and WS2.3 not yet having their project meetings as the leadership was missing
    - Talk to Scott about who can lead 2.3

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-11-10

## Agenda 
- Workshop with Environmental Data Centres (February) - need a use case 
    - 5 data centers, environmental data service to unify them as one portal, digital solutions project brings together environmental data with health data 
        - Head of EDS integrations will be leading plan for further funding, unified external facing voice for EDS 
        - Would be good to write EDS collaboration into next round of funding 
    - Ask at management meeting 
    - Number of attendees – location – BAS? London more central 
    - Cast a wide net to get multiple case studies – start with broad brainstorming 
        - Plan broad online meeting to start the process 

- Stakeholder mapping 
    - Cass and Alden to start creating stakeholder maps using Kumu + Microsoft Dynamics 
    - Cass to start maps for 2.2, 2.4, 2.5 
    - Alden to start 2.3 
    - 2.1 TBD 
    - After review, reconvene to synthesize across E&S 

- Manchester E&S interest group event 
    - Who’s going? – Bea, Cass, Alden (check registration) 
- esgc@turing.ac.uk is the new GC mailbox if needed 

## Action items 
- Alden – prep Nov 15th presentation 
- Alden – write to data center heads to outline plan 
- Alden / Cass attend meeting @ Turing with Dave Topping (Manchester DSH) 
- Alden to present update of Iceland talk – abstracts close today. Emily to check with David whether time is available to present.  

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-10-04

## Notes
- on sharepiont

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-11-10

## Attendees
- 

### Apologies
- 

## Notes
- 

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->