---
tags: meeting
description: events 
---

:::info
**Live notes on hackmd**: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/rydi5rjrp
**Archived notes on github**: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/environment-and-sustainability-gc-team/blob/main/meeting-notes/meeting-events.md

**Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---

```
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting yyyy-mm-dd
## Attendees
### Appologies
## Notes
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
```
==Actions are highlighted yellow==

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-12-04

## Attendees
- Katy Thompson
- Alden Conner
- Cass Gould van Praag

### Apologies
- Harry

## Notes
- [Forward planner](https://thealanturininstitute-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/personal/kthompson_turing_ac_uk/Documents/E%26S%20-%202024%20forward%20planner.xlsx?d=w30900d647e0f485b8ac08f60af9cc52a&csf=1&web=1&e=Ixh4p1)
    - This will be moved to Monday.com - all comms and engagement directorte use it, all AIUK planning happens on there
    - Blog posts and press releases will also go on there
        - Great for collating and sharing all this information
    - E&S landing page to be ready for AIUK
    - ==Alden to add in pannel activities==
    - ==where to store - currently on Katy's sharepoint==

- [Planning brain dump](https://hackmd.io/@kthompson/Hy15cc4H6/edit)
    - What does it mean to have "launched" the GC?
        - things will be different after AIUK - new funding cycle after March 2024, and new S&I Director
        - A lot of hesitation and decision making, which we don't have time for!
        - Practically, we are launched and doing the work!
        - We need to speak about it with confidence. 
            - S&I Director is the spokes person for the work we're doing on the ground
        - Ask for forgivness and trust that Scott will put on the breaks where it's really needed
        - Stakeholders: ==Cass and Alden working on this==
        - Confidence in internal Turing community
            - Making sure we know what we're talking about, and inspiration

- Ideas big and small
    - Public facing ones may be more appropriate for next funding round
    - How much money do we have to spend before end of March? ==get update form Harry==

- We don't know what funding looks like for April 2024 for the next 5y
    - ==Need an answer for this from Scott - know we are budgeting for this now==
    - What could help us secure that

- Cass' padlet: https://padlet.com/cgouldvanpraag/e-s-gc-events-ahu1lsdgwkfdqc3y
    - Pretty :)

- What basic info should we give/ask for for people who want to run events
    - Events toolkit
    - Central events requests form - if any come in for E&S, they can copy over the same structure as one for the E&S workstreams
        - Could just be a structured conversation

- Events reporting template: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/HJKZ2HsSa
    - Katy has some good examples from archived events. ==Katy will share links==

- ==Cass add Katy to slack channels== 
    - ==Set up channel with us and Harry== - done: E&S workspace #infrastructure-team

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->